APJ Abdul Kalam was an Indian scientist and politician who played a leading role in the development of India’s-missile and nuclear weapons programs. He was also elected president of India from 2002 to 2007. Kalam was born into a poor Tamil Muslim family on October 15, 1931, in the pilgrimage town of Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu. His father Jainulabdeen was a boat owner and imam of a local mosque his mother Ashiamma was a housewife.

This didn’t stop him from studying advanced physics and aerospace engineering. In 1954, he graduated from the University of Madras with a degree in physics. In 1955, he then moved to Madras to study aerospace engineering in the Madras Institute of Technology. An interesting fact is that he narrowly missed achieving his dream of becoming a fighter pilot, as he placed ninth in qualifiers, but unfortunately only eight positions were available in the IAF.
After graduating from the Madras Institute of Technology in 1960, Kalam joined the Aeronautical Development Establishment of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDS) as a scientist, after becoming a member of the DRDS. He started his career by designing a small hovercraft and also worked under the renowned space
scientist, Vikram Sarabhai.
In 1969, Dr Kalam was transferred andstarted working with the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). At ISRO he served in various capacities. He was made Project Director of the Mission for SLV-3. He played a crucial role in developing satellite launch vehicle technology and expertise in control, propulsion and aerodynamics. The SLV-3 project managed to put Rohini, a scientific satellite, into orbit in July 1980. The same year Kalam received the government’s approval and expanded the programme to include more engineers. It was in the year 1974, under the supervision of Dr Kalam, India underwent its first nuclear test. It was through these nuclear tests he showed the world India’s position and power in nuclear technology. In 1982, Dr. Kalam joined and became the director of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Apart from the enormous and intriguing world of physics, his interest lied in the world of literature too. He was the proud author of numerous inspirational books like “India 2010”, “Ignited Minds”, “Mission India”, “The Luminous Sparks” and “Inspiring Thoughts”. He has written over 25 books in his lifetime including “Wings of Fire- An Autobiography” with Arun Tiwari.